Skops announcement blog (#441)
huggingface/blog: skops.md

---
title: "Introducing Skops"

> thumbnail: /blog/assets/88_skops_library/introducing_skops.png

Reviewer: I feel the "Introducing" being orange with a orangish background might be a bit hard to read. No strong opinions though as it's not my area of expertise. Also cc @Reeray on this

---

<h1>
    Introducing Skops
</h1>

<div class="blog-metadata">
    <small>Published August 15, 2022.</small>
    <a target="_blank" class="btn no-underline text-sm mb-5 font-sans" href="https://github.com/huggingface/blog/blob/main/skops-library.md">
        Update on GitHub
    </a>
</div>

<div class="author-card">

>     <a href="/merve">

Reviewer: Should we add Adrin and Benjamin as coauthors on this?

        <img class="avatar avatar-user" src="https://aeiljuispo.cloudimg.io/v7/https://s3.amazonaws.com/moonup/production/uploads/1631694399207-6141a88b3a0ec78603c9e784.png?w=200&h=200&f=face" title="Gravatar">
        <div class="bfc">
            <code>merve</code>
            <span class="fullname">Merve Noyan</span>
        </div>
    </a>
</div>

## Introducing Skops

At Hugging Face, we are working on tackling various problems in open-source machine learning, including, hosting models securely and openly, enabling reproducibility, explainability and collaboration. We are thrilled to introduce you to our new library: Skops! With Skops, you can host your sklearn models on the Hugging Face Hub, create model cards for model documentation and collaborate with others.

Let's go through an end-to-end example: train a model first, and see step-by-step how to leverage Skops for sklearn in production.

> 

Reviewer: For code heavy blog posts, we usually also add companion notebooks that people can open to try out the same code. The notebooks are at https://github.com/huggingface/blog/tree/main/notebooks See https://huggingface.co/blog/fastai as an example

```python
# let's import the libraries first
import os
from pathlib import Path
import pickle
from skops import hub_utils, card
import sklearn

> import matplotlib.pyplot as plt

Reviewer: `plt` is not used in this snippet. For blog posts, usually it's better to do the imports in the code snippets where they are used.  Same for `pickle` and `Path`and few others

from sklearn.metrics import ConfusionMatrixDisplay, confusion_matrix
from sklearn.datasets import load_breast_cancer
from sklearn.ensemble import HistGradientBoostingClassifier

> from sklearn.experimental import enable_halving_search_cv  # noqa

Reviewer: Would it make more sense to use a much simpler model? Maybe one of the main examples of sklearn such as iris from https://scikit-learn.org/stable/tutorial/basic/tutorial.html? My concern with looking at this snippet is:

* It's using cross validation, param grid and other things which make the code more complex. If you're introducing a new library to people and on top of that you show different sklearn features they might not be aware of, they have a higher cognitive overload. Many people might not know `HistGradientBoostingClassifier`, but  `svm.SVC` is probably better known out there.
* Seeing an experimental `sklearn` feature (`enable_halving_search_cv`) here is unexpected to me (and unnecessary afaik)
* Having a shorter, more concise and minimal snippet will make it less likely for people to walk away from reading the whole thing

from sklearn.model_selection import HalvingGridSearchCV, train_test_split

# Load the data and split
X, y = load_breast_cancer(as_frame=True, return_X_y=True)
X_train, X_test, y_train, y_test = train_test_split(
    X, y, test_size=0.3, random_state=42
)

# Train the model
param_grid = {
    "max_leaf_nodes": [5, 10, 15],
    "max_depth": [2, 5, 10],
}

model = HalvingGridSearchCV(
    estimator=HistGradientBoostingClassifier(),
    param_grid=param_grid,
    random_state=42,
    n_jobs=-1,
).fit(X_train, y_train)
```

> We will first save our model and initialize the repository. The model name and the format is insignificant, we will save our model as `example.pkl` for simplicity. `init` creates a repository containing the model in the given path and the configuration file containing the specifications of the environment the model is trained in. The data and the task passed to the `init` will help Hugging Face Hub enable the inference widget on the model page.

Reviewer: > The model name and the format is insignificant, we will save our model as `example.pkl` for simplicity.

This sounds a bit strange. Should it be something like

> You can use any model filename you want. You can also use your serializing method of preference, like pickle or joblib. (?)

> We will first save our model and initialize the repository. The model name and the format is insignificant, we will save our model as `example.pkl` for simplicity. `init` creates a repository containing the model in the given path and the configuration file containing the specifications of the environment the model is trained in. The data and the task passed to the `init` will help Hugging Face Hub enable the inference widget on the model page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will first save our model and initialize the repository. The model name and the format is insignificant, we will save our model as `example.pkl` for simplicity. `hub_utils .init` creates a Git repository containing the model in the given path and the configuration file containing the specifications of the environment the model is trained in. The data and the task passed to the `init` will help Hugging Face Hub enable the inference widget on the model page as well as discoverability features to find the model.
```

```python
# let's save the model
model_path = "example.pkl"
local_repo = "my-awesome-model"
with open(model_path, mode="bw") as f:
    pickle.dump(model, file=f)

# we will now initialize a local repository
hub_utils.init(
    model=model_path, 
    requirements=[f"scikit-learn={sklearn.__version__}"], 
    dst=local_repo,
    task="tabular-classification",
    data=X_test,

> )

Reviewer: Some questions I had from looking at above
* Should `model` receive a path or a model. If it's a path, should the parameter name change to `model_path`?
* It's not very clear from the previous paragraph if the repo is locally or also pushed automatically. Should we clarify it's a local clone of a remote repo?

```

The repository now contains the serialized model and the configuration file. The configuration contains the features of the model, the requirements of the model, an example input taken from `X_test` that we've passed, name of the model file and name of the task solved here.

> We will now create the model card. The card should fit the format that Hugging Face Hub expects it to be: it consists of a markdown part and a metadata section. The keys to the metadata section are defined [here](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/models-cards#model-card-metadata) and are used for discoverability of the models. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will now create the model card. The card should fit the format that Hugging Face Hub expects it to be: it consists of a markdown part and a metadata section, which is a `yaml` section at the top. The keys to the metadata section are defined [here](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/models-cards#model-card-metadata) and are used for discoverability of the models. 
```

> The content of the model card is determined by a jinja template that has:

Reviewer: People might not know what Jinja is and afaik for most use cases people don't need to know this, so maybe we can just remove "jinja" from the sentence. WDYT?

- yaml section on top for metadata (e.g. model license, library name and more),

> - markdown section with free text and slots to be filled (e.g. simple description of the model),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- markdown section with free text and sections to be filled (e.g. simple description of the model),
```

Following sections are extracted by Skops to fill in the model card:
- Hyperparameters of the model,
- Interactive plot of the model,

> - For metadata, library name and task identifier (e.g. tabular-classification) are filled.
> We will walk you through how to programmatically pass information to fill the model card. Please take a look at the [default template](https://github.com/skops-dev/skops/blob/main/skops/card/default_template.md) used by Skops to see what the template expects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For metadata, library name and task identifier (e.g. tabular-classification) are filled.

We will walk you through how to programmatically pass information to fill the model card. Please take a look at the [default template](https://github.com/skops-dev/skops/blob/main/skops/card/default_template.md) used by Skops to see what the template expects.
```

You can add information and metadata using `add`.

```python
# create the card
model_card = card.Card(model)

> # create some information we want to pass to the card

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# define some metadata to be added to the card 
```

license = "mit"
limitations = "This model is not ready to be used in production."

> model_description = (

Reviewer: Why is this with parenthesis?

    "This is a HistGradientBoostingClassifier model trained on breast cancer dataset."
)
model_card_authors = "skops_user"
get_started_code = (
    "import pickle \nwith open(dtc_pkl_filename, 'rb') as file: \nclf = pickle.load(file)"
)
citation_bibtex = "bibtex\n@inproceedings{...,year={2020}}"

# we can add the information using add
model_card.add(
    citation_bibtex=citation_bibtex,
    get_started_code=get_started_code,
    model_card_authors=model_card_authors,
    limitations=limitations,
    model_description=model_description,
)
```

We can also add any plot of our choice to the card using `add_plot` like below.

```python
# we will create a confusion matrix
cm = confusion_matrix(y_test, y_pred, labels=model.classes_)
disp = ConfusionMatrixDisplay(confusion_matrix=cm, display_labels=model.classes_)
disp.plot()

# save the plot
plt.savefig(Path(local_repo) / "confusion_matrix.png")

# the plot will be written to the model card under the name confusion_matrix
# we pass the path of the plot itself

> model_card.add_plot(confusion_matrix="confusion_matrix.png")

Reviewer: This is very cool! 🔥

```

Let's save the model card in the local repository. The file name here should be `README.md` since it is what Hugging Face Hub expects.
```python
model_card.save(Path(local_repo) / "README.md")
```

> We can now push the repository to Hugging Face Hub. For this, we will use `push` from `hub_utils`. Hugging Face Hub requires tokens for authentication, therefore you need to pass your token.

Reviewer: Alternatively they can log in with `huggingface_hub login` or `notebook_login`

```python

> token = os.environ["HF_HUB_TOKEN"]

Reviewer: Isn't the token automatically obtained within skops if it's set in an environment variable?

# if the repository doesn't exist remotely on the Hugging Face Hub, it will be created when we set create_remote to True
repo_id = "skops-user/my-awesome-model"
hub_utils.push(
    repo_id=repo_id,
    source=local_repo,
    token=token,
    commit_message="pushing files to the repo from the example!",
    create_remote=True,
)
```

Once we push the model to the Hub, anyone can use it, unless the repository is private. You can download the models using `download`. Apart from the model file, the repository contains the model configuration and the requirements of the environment."

```python
download_repo = "downloaded-model"
hub_utils.download(repo_id=repo_id, dst=download_repo)
```

If the requirements of your project have changed, you can use `update_env` to update the environment.

```python
hub_utils.update_env(path=local_repo, requirements=["scikit-learn"])
```

> 

Reviewer: One very cool thing is having the widget, so maybe it's worth highlighting it at the end and having a screenshot

        <div class="bfc">
            <code>BenjaminB</code>
            <span class="fullname">Benjamin Bossan</span>
        </div>
    </a>
</div>

## Introducing Skops

At Hugging Face, we are working on tackling various problems in open-source machine learning, including, hosting models securely and openly, enabling reproducibility, explainability and collaboration. We are thrilled to introduce you to our new library: Skops! With Skops, you can host your scikit-learn models on the Hugging Face Hub, create model cards for model documentation and collaborate with others.

Let's go through an end-to-end example: train a model first, and see step-by-step how to leverage Skops for sklearn in production.

```python
# let's import the libraries first
import sklearn
from sklearn.datasets import load_breast_cancer
from sklearn.tree import DecisionTreeClassifier
from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split

# Load the data and split
X, y = load_breast_cancer(as_frame=True, return_X_y=True)
X_train, X_test, y_train, y_test = train_test_split(
    X, y, test_size=0.3, random_state=42
)

# Train the model
model = DecisionTreeClassifier().fit(X_train, y_train)
```

> You can use any model filename you want. You can also use any serializing method that you prefer, like `pickle` or `joblib`. At the moment our backend uses `joblib` to load the model. `hub_utils .init` creates a local folder containing the model in the given path and the configuration file containing the specifications of the environment the model is trained in. The data and the task passed to the `init` will help Hugging Face Hub enable the inference widget on the model page as well as discoverability features to find the model.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use any model filename and serialization method, like `pickle` or `joblib`. At the moment, our backend uses `joblib` to load the model. `hub_utils.init` creates a local folder containing the model in the given path, and the configuration file containing the specifications of the environment the model is trained in. The data and the task passed to the `init` will help Hugging Face Hub enable the inference widget on the model page as well as discoverability features to find the model.
```

```python
from skops import hub_utils
import pickle

# let's save the model
model_path = "example.pkl"
local_repo = "my-awesome-model"
with open(model_path, mode="bw") as f:
    pickle.dump(model, file=f)

# we will now initialize a local repository
hub_utils.init(
    model=model_path, 
    requirements=[f"scikit-learn={sklearn.__version__}"], 
    dst=local_repo,
    task="tabular-classification",
    data=X_test,
)
```

> The repository now contains the serialized model and the configuration file. The configuration contains the features of the model, the requirements of the model, an example input taken from `X_test` that we've passed, name of the model file and name of the task solved here.

Reviewer 2: I think breaking this up into a list makes it more readable.

> The repository now contains the serialized model and the configuration file. The configuration contains the features of the model, the requirements of the model, an example input taken from `X_test` that we've passed, name of the model file and name of the task solved here.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The repository now contains the serialized model and the configuration file. The configuration contains the features of the model, the requirements of the model, an example input taken from `X_test` that we've passed, name of the model file and name of the task to be solved here.
```

> We will now create the model card. The card should fit the format that Hugging Face Hub expects it to be: it consists of a markdown part and a metadata section, which is a `yaml` section at the top. The keys to the metadata section are defined [here](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/models-cards#model-card-metadata) and are used for discoverability of the models. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We will now create the model card. The card should match the expected Hugging Face Hub format: a markdown part and a metadata section, which is a `yaml` section at the top. The keys to the metadata section are defined [here](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/models-cards#model-card-metadata) and are used for the discoverability of the models. 
```

> The content of the model card is determined by a template that has:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The content of the model card is determined by a template that has a:
```

> - yaml section on top for metadata (e.g. model license, library name and more),

Reviewer 2: You can also remove the commas at the end of the list :)

```suggestion
- `yaml` section on top for metadata (e.g. model license, library name, and more)
```

- markdown section with free text and sections to be filled (e.g. simple description of the model),

> Following sections are extracted by `skops` to fill in the model card:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following sections are extracted by `skops` to fill in the model card:
```

- Hyperparameters of the model,

> - Interactive plot of the model,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Interactive diagram of the model,
```

> - For metadata, library name and task identifier (e.g. tabular-classification) are filled.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- For metadata, library name and task identifier (e.g. tabular-classification), and information required by the inference widget are filled.
```

> - For metadata, library name and task identifier (e.g. tabular-classification), and information required by the inference widget are filled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- For metadata, library name, task identifier (e.g. tabular-classification), and information required by the inference widget are filled.
```

> We will walk you through how to programmatically pass information to fill the model card. Please take a look at the [default template](https://github.com/skops-dev/skops/blob/main/skops/card/default_template.md) used by `skops` to see what the template expects.

Reviewer 3: We shouldn't send people to the repo, here's the documentation of the default template: https://skops.readthedocs.io/en/latest/model_card.html, if something's missing there, should be added.

> We will walk you through how to programmatically pass information to fill the model card. You can check out our documentation on default template provided by `skops` and it's sections [here](https://skops.readthedocs.io/en/latest/model_card.html) to see what the template expects and see how the template itself looks like [here](https://github.com/skops-dev/skops/blob/main/skops/card/default_template.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We will walk you through how to programmatically pass information to fill the model card. You can check out our documentation on the default template provided by `skops`, and its sections [here](https://skops.readthedocs.io/en/latest/model_card.html) to see what the template expects and what it looks like [here](https://github.com/skops-dev/skops/blob/main/skops/card/default_template.md).
```

> You can create the model card by instantiating `Card` class from `skops`. During serialization of the model, task name and the library name are written to configuration file. This information is needed in card's metadata as well, so you can use `metadata_from_config` method to extract the metadata needed from configuration and pass it to the card while creation. You can add information and metadata using `add`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can create the model card by instantiating the `Card` class from `skops`. During model serialization, the task name and library name are written to the configuration file. This information is also needed in the card's metadata, so you can use the `metadata_from_config` method to extract the metadata from the configuration file and pass it to the card when you create it. You can add information and metadata using `add`.
```

```python
from skops import card

# create the card 
model_card = card.Card(model, metadata=card.metadata_from_config(Path(destination_folder)))

limitations = "This model is not ready to be used in production."
model_description = "This is a DecisionTreeClassifier model trained on breast cancer dataset."
model_card_authors = "skops_user"

> get_started_code = "import pickle \nwith open(dtc_pkl_filename, 'rb') as file: \nclf = pickle.load(file)"

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
get_started_code = "import pickle \nwith open(dtc_pkl_filename, 'rb') as file: \n    clf = pickle.load(file)"
```
Same comment as I did previously, this is needed or else the block is not indented.

citation_bibtex = "bibtex\n@inproceedings{...,year={2020}}"

# we can add the information using add
model_card.add(
    citation_bibtex=citation_bibtex,
    get_started_code=get_started_code,
    model_card_authors=model_card_authors,
    limitations=limitations,
    model_description=model_description,
)

# we can set the metadata part directly
model_card.metadata.license = "mit"
```

> We will now evaluate the model and pass details on the evaluation process. To pass the details about the evaluation method, we can use `add`. We can pass the metrics using `add_metrics`. The metrics that we'll pass will be parsed to a table. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We will now evaluate the model and add a description of the evaluation method with `add`. The metrics are added by `add_metrics`, which will be parsed into a table. 
```

y_pred = model.predict(X_test)
# we can pass metrics using add_metrics and pass details with add
model_card.add(eval_method="The model is evaluated using test split, on accuracy and F1 score with macro average.")
model_card.add_metrics(accuracy=accuracy_score(y_test, y_pred))
model_card.add_metrics(**{"f1 score": f1_score(y_test, y_pred, average="micro")})
```

We can also add any plot of our choice to the card using `add_plot` like below.

```python
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
from pathlib import Path
# we will create a confusion matrix
cm = confusion_matrix(y_test, y_pred, labels=model.classes_)
disp = ConfusionMatrixDisplay(confusion_matrix=cm, display_labels=model.classes_)
disp.plot()

# save the plot
plt.savefig(Path(local_repo) / "confusion_matrix.png")

# the plot will be written to the model card under the name confusion_matrix
# we pass the path of the plot itself
model_card.add_plot(confusion_matrix="confusion_matrix.png")
```

Let's save the model card in the local repository. The file name here should be `README.md` since it is what Hugging Face Hub expects.
```python
model_card.save(Path(local_repo) / "README.md")
```

> We can now push the repository to Hugging Face Hub. For this, we will use `push` from `hub_utils`. Hugging Face Hub requires tokens for authentication, therefore you need to pass your token. You can use `notebook_login` if you're logging in from notebook, or you can use `huggingface-cli login` if you're logging in from CLI, you can also pass your token directly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We can now push the repository to the Hugging Face Hub. For this, we will use `push` from `hub_utils`. Hugging Face Hub requires tokens for authentication, therefore you need to pass your token in either  `notebook_login` if you're logging in from a notebook, or `huggingface-cli login` if you're logging in from the CLI.
```

```python
# if the repository doesn't exist remotely on the Hugging Face Hub, it will be created when we set create_remote to True
repo_id = "skops-user/my-awesome-model"
hub_utils.push(
    repo_id=repo_id,
    source=local_repo,
    token=token,
    commit_message="pushing files to the repo from the example!",
    create_remote=True,
)
```

> Once we push the model to the Hub, anyone can use it, unless the repository is private. You can download the models using `download`. Apart from the model file, the repository contains the model configuration and the requirements of the environment."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once we push the model to the Hub, anyone can use it unless the repository is private. You can download the models using `download`. Apart from the model file, the repository contains the model configuration and the environment requirements.
```

```python
download_repo = "downloaded-model"
hub_utils.download(repo_id=repo_id, dst=download_repo)
```

The inference widget is enabled to make predictions in the repository.

![Hosted Inference Widget](blog/assets/94_skops/skops_widget.png)

If the requirements of your project have changed, you can use `update_env` to update the environment.

```python
hub_utils.update_env(path=local_repo, requirements=["scikit-learn"])
```

You can see the example repository pushed with above code [here](https://huggingface.co/scikit-learn/skops-blog-example).

> We have prepared two examples to show how to save your models and use model card utilities, you can find them at resources section below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We have prepared two examples to show how to save your models and use model card utilities. You can find them in the resources section below.
```
